For this project, I was asked to analyze and recommend solutions based on the following:
  1. Identify the top traffic sources for XYZ Electronics over the past three months. Which sources are performing well, and which sources need improvement? Provide your analysis and insights.
  2. Analyze the user engagement metrics such as bounce rate and average session duration. Are there any significant changes or trends? What factors might be influencing user engagement? Explain your findings. 
  3. Evaluate XYZ Electronics' conversion rate and goal completions. Identify any specific pages or actions that have a high conversion rate and those that need improvement. Provide recommendations to optimize conversion rates.
  4. Explore the demographic data to understand XYZ Electronics' target audience. Identify any notable characteristics or trends. How can this information be utilized to improve marketing strategies?
  5. Analyze the e-commerce data to identify the highest-performing products and product categories. Are there any products that are underperforming or have potential for growth? Provide strategies to optimize sales for the identified categories.
  6. Finally, summarize your overall analysis of XYZ Electronics' website performance. Provide actionable recommendations to improve overall website traffic, engagement, conversion rates, and sales. 

NOTE: All below code is hypothetical and is not based on a real dataset.

Firstly, it is important to ask questions to make sure all of the information is gathered and available for the analysis.
  1. Do I have access to all of the data available and needed for analysis?
  2. Where is the data stored?
  3. Are there any other metrics that are important to the stakeholders?

Once I have all of the needed information, I would then work on accessing and preparing the data for analysis.
If the data was stored in a database, I prefer to use SQL to access it and work through the data. I would run code similar to the following:

#Selecting all data to see what data is available
SELECT *
FROM
  xyz_electronics_web_data

Once I look at the data that is available the next step would be to clean up the data to make sure we do not come across any errors.
I would check for things like spelling errors, formatting errors, duplicates and missing values. I can do this by sorting and filtering the data using SQL code

#Selecting specific metrics and sorting to find duplicates and other errors
SELECT 
  page_title,
  product_id
FROM
  xyz_electronics_web_data
ORDER BY
  product_id

After fixing any errors that I find in the full dataset, I would then create temporary tables from the data to break the data up into the necessary segments that I need (example below).
This will help break up the data into smaller sets and make it easier to analyze for each question.

CREATE TABLE traffic_sources as
  SELECT
    traffic_source,
    total_users,
    sessions
  FROM
    xyz_electronics_web_data
  ORDER BY
    total_users DESC;

Next step is to analyze the data. I would run SQL queries for each table to analyze the data to find trends in the data, outliers, and any other information that stands 
out and answers the stakeholders questions. During the analysis, I may find things like:
  1. Find out where most users are coming from like direct traffic, organic search or social media
  2. Determine how well the website is functioning and analyze the user experience for bounce rates, session times, etc.
  3. Find out which pages are converting and which aren't. This will help determine where you may need better content and prioritize marketing efforts.
  4. Understand who the true target audience is based on information like age, gender and interests of people shopping on the website.
  5. Which products are underperforming to make decisions on how to move forward with those products.

Once I have analyzed the data and have come to some conclusions, I would then take the data into a visualization tool like Tableau and create tables, charts or graphs to help communicate my
findings. Visualizing the data helps stakeholders understand the data better. This will help make better informed decisions and lead to results driven changes. I would share all of this
information.

Finally, it is time to act on the findings. I would make recommendations based on findings from the data such as:
  1. Changing marketing content to be more appealing to the consumer and A/B testing multiple pieces of content.
  2. Using social media marketing to increase engagement
  3. Making sure the website is working properly so we see less consumers abandoning their carts or sessions.
  4. Using email automation to increase conversions in a more efficient way.

These recommendations can then be used to take action and work towards bettering the performance of the website, products and marketing.
